README.md, before:

# Anaconda_Titans

# Purpose of Analysis: To Develop a Prediction Algorithm to Identify Key Diabetes Indicators


## Project Outline

### Project name
### Create a Repository
### Create a Branch
### Project layout
### Identify dataset


## Background:
Diabetes occurs mainly in three main types: Type 1 (autoimmune disease, ~5-10% of people with diabetes), Type 2 (90-95% of people with diabetes), and Gestational (occurs only in women during pregnancy, known to increase risk for Type 2 diabetes later in life). Prediabetes is an additional condition in which blood sugar levels are higher than normal, but not high enough to count as Type 2 diabetes (~1 in 3 US adults have prediabetes). Lifestyle changes are known to be successful methods to reverse prediabetes [1]. 

For this analysis, all diabetes types will be collectively treated as diabetes occurrences together. We do recognize that Type 1 diabetes isn’t known to be preventable, as its main risk factors are genetic-based rather than lifestyle. However, 90-95% of diabetes, in addition to prediabetes cases, occur due to lifestyle risk factors. Examples of lifestyle risk factors include: amount of weekly physical activity, diet (amount of fresh fruits/vegetables), weight (overweight/obesity), ethnicity, age, number of close family members with diabetes, and other co-occurring diseases (eg. hypertension, high cholesterol, etc…) [2].

The purpose of this analysis is to review the 2021 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System survey data information dataset [3]. This dataset contains 438,639 records that we have cleaned and analyzed to look at how well known risk factors indicate the occurrence of diabetes/prediabetes from our questions noted below:

### Sample ETL output dataset

#### 1st 40 Cleaned_Row Data Sample

![image](https://github.com/ras52017/Anaconda_Titans/blob/main/Images/1st%2040%20Cleaned_Row%20Data%20Sample.jpg)

#### Sample original binary dataset before split

![image](https://github.com/ras52017/Anaconda_Titans/blob/main/Images/Sample%20original%20binary%20dataset%20before%20split.jpg)

#### diabetes_binary_5050split_healt_Sample

![image](https://github.com/ras52017/Anaconda_Titans/blob/main/Images/diabetes_binary_5050split_healt_Sample.jpg)


## Resources:
[1] https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/basics/diabetes.html 

[2] https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/basics/risk-factors.html 

[3] https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/annual_data/annual_2021.html

Commit message:

Adding presentation link, contributors, and questions being asked

README.md, after:

# Anaconda_Titans

# Purpose of Analysis: To Develop a Prediction Algorithm to Identify Key Diabetes Indicators


## Project Outline

### Project name
### Create a Repository
### Create a Branch
### Project layout
### Identify dataset

## Presentation
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qGy2-b1SRxSEkdzDkbmghH16_rVRwgC2FQhMx59UZbI/edit#slide=id.g200cf861361_0_0

## Contributors
### Harriet Hammond
### Rachel Helmich
### Erasmus Quaye

## Background:
Diabetes occurs mainly in three main types: Type 1 (autoimmune disease, ~5-10% of people with diabetes), Type 2 (90-95% of people with diabetes), and Gestational (occurs only in women during pregnancy, known to increase risk for Type 2 diabetes later in life). Prediabetes is an additional condition in which blood sugar levels are higher than normal, but not high enough to count as Type 2 diabetes (~1 in 3 US adults have prediabetes). Lifestyle changes are known to be successful methods to reverse prediabetes [1]. 

For this analysis, all diabetes types will be collectively treated as diabetes occurrences together. We do recognize that Type 1 diabetes isn’t known to be preventable, as its main risk factors are genetic-based rather than lifestyle. However, 90-95% of diabetes, in addition to prediabetes cases, occur due to lifestyle risk factors. Examples of lifestyle risk factors include: amount of weekly physical activity, diet (amount of fresh fruits/vegetables), weight (overweight/obesity), ethnicity, age, number of close family members with diabetes, and other co-occurring diseases (eg. hypertension, high cholesterol, etc…) [2].

The purpose of this analysis is to review the 2021 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System survey data information dataset [3]. This dataset contains 438,639 records that we have cleaned and analyzed to look at how well known risk factors indicate the occurrence of diabetes/prediabetes from our questions noted below:

1) What are the top 5 states for diabetes occurrence?

2) What are the top 3-5 indicators/comorbities are found with diabetes patients?

3) How does the occurence of diabetes differ between races, genders, and both combined?

4) How well can future diabetes cases be predicted by the top indicators by training a model? 

### Sample ETL output dataset

#### 1st 40 Cleaned_Row Data Sample

![image](https://github.com/ras52017/Anaconda_Titans/blob/main/Images/1st%2040%20Cleaned_Row%20Data%20Sample.jpg)

#### Sample original binary dataset before split

![image](https://github.com/ras52017/Anaconda_Titans/blob/main/Images/Sample%20original%20binary%20dataset%20before%20split.jpg)

#### diabetes_binary_5050split_healt_Sample

![image](https://github.com/ras52017/Anaconda_Titans/blob/main/Images/diabetes_binary_5050split_healt_Sample.jpg)


## Resources:
[1] https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/basics/diabetes.html 

[2] https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/basics/risk-factors.html 

[3] https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/annual_data/annual_2021.html
